Navigation
-observation
-strategic
-navigation

player should always know where to go
-use visual language
-use of lighting / color / animation

sometimes good to throw in a little confusion

good level design does not rely on words to tell the story

https://youtu.be/bswgQg-F3QE (beginners guide)

https://youtu.be/aOPRkpElDpo (the witness)

https://youtu.be/e30a1DpKWvg (that dragon, cancer)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCZlQVXk4fE (Depression Quest)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mzGGPqtNZ_4 (Waking - Demo)

Use contrast to bring out important parts of room
or de-emphesis parts that don't need focus

Repetition is useful. Repeating colors throughout a room may make disparate elements work

Interior design is bare bone basics / fundamentals for environment artist

Interior design deals with space around you in all directions. STUDY IT

Arrange things in a way so people understand 

Enrichment is the core idea of being inside a space

Expression is the mood within a space, tone, story

All principles must exist together

Breakdown
-Order: we need to arrange things so user feels at ease
--pattern: Color, material, (hierarchy), textures
--Orientation: mental images of each part and then piece together
---identity, structure, meaning
---identity: create iconic element that people can come back to and remember
---structure: pattern within spaces that are memorable.
---Meaning: Personal meaning towards that space b/c it means something to you

Order - how to define space
Enclosure: emotions, body, spirit is like water. Enclosure is like the glass
Emotions flow out in front of us
Hallway our emotions poor forwars and backwards.
Corners let us back up and more enclosions

Lack of repitition through a space can be discomforting and scary

Noticing a certain pattern, or set of angles can help orientate

Walls & floors is literal space
What about implied space? Space within

A lot in games artists focus on lighting for orientation, but that is just one tool for
interior designers. May just be used to liven upt he space

Space definition - literal & implied

Enrichment - making it more interesting (movement or visual field)
About the experience of looking at something
Approachability. We like scenes with complexity in them
At a certain point complexity does start to taper off.

Spaces people appreciated the most were naturalistic 
People like to break down the scenes into compartmental areas
Techniques of complexity, coherence, mystery

Complexity - we like to see things we can break down, compartmentalize. Animals
love to break down patterns
Legibility: Ability to break down a space into component parts and understand
what is going on
Coherence - appreciation for patterns in space and perceiving the pattern.
Mystery - we want to investigate and move into. More enrchiched the space may be
Approachability

Universal Enrichment - can be detached from narrative & interior
-manipulation of enclosing space - can make it a more enriching area
-slight enrich, then learn to use larger versions

More than just enterior design. Caves have similar patterns

If a pattern becomes incoherent, it becomes uneasy.

Surface articulation can lead a player through a space or prevent a hallway from seeming
too long

Surface articulation can have thickness and shape.
Doesn't need to be man-made. Whether intended or not.

Spatial Composition. - composing elements makes it easier to make sense of them
Total chaos difficult to deal with. But very very little legitibility
However if we create too much order, the space is not very enriched

Enrichment can happen more than on visual field but on movement field.

Can change up patterns by having multiple movement schemes within.

Novelty - having something impactful and interesting and different from everything else
Problem is if we use too much novelty at too high intensity. It's difficult for a user
to notice everytime we use it.
Makes us have to go too far for the user to appreciate it again.

Hard to remember what our experience was if everything or nothing is memorable
Gotta control it with little changes

Tension - as we move if the space encloses around us that is interesting.
Need to release tension either gradually or abruptly. Release of tension is enriching

Expression - deal with toon / mode / narative of space

Interior design is least effective with expression.

Expression is more of a mindset. World Expression, Symbolism

World Expression - Historical , cultural

Historical - history of a space told through its visuals. Era
Fictional spaces all have their own inherent history that can be expressed

Using symbols to suggest a specific culture.
Can be heavy handed and tacky but still a form of expression

Or being stereotypical and cliche for other cultures

Inhabitant Expression - anyone who lives inside of the space. May be living or squatting
-Identity
--Attitude
--Sophistication
--Self preservation

Attitude is how friendly or unfriendly the things may be. Could be something they built
or placed on the wall. Could be a sense of humor, and tell you about themselves.

Sophistication appreciation for taste or expression

Self Presentation - how much of the attitude do they want you to see. Or maybe

Symbolism Expression
-assending / descending
-admittance / refusal

Broader expression of story. Some users will not see or recognize it.

Ideas of ascending / descending. Moving up is like a heavenly movement

Admittance/refusal. When you want someone to go through a space show open doors, lots
of light. Or doing the opposite

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWXsmnlmADc
Next:
Architecture
City Planning
